# Deadlock-Detection-In-Distributed-OS

Deadlock is a situation where processes want to access resource held by other process which in turn is waiting for some other resource resulting in whole system to halt. In distributed environment this situation becomes more complicated since processes may exist in different locations. In distributed system all resources and information are distributed over various machines which makes deadlock handling difficult.In this paper we are implementing edge chasing deadlock handling technique for distributed system to handle deadlocks effectively This scheme of Chandy Mishra Algorithm uses a probe message to detect whether there is any deadlock or not.A probe is nothing basically a triple(i,j,k) which specifies that Pi has started the deadlock detection which is sent to the home site of Pj which is further sent to the Pk home site.This message circulates all around the WTF graph and check for the deadlock. If the blocked process receives the probes then its forward the probes back to itself detecting that there is deadlock in the process. We have used to concept of multithreading for creating the process and has assigned thread to each individual process. When the process run individually and suppose a deadlock occurs in any part of our process then our algorithm check for the deadlock. It finds out in which area the deadlock has occurred. This scheme relieves us from the problem of detection of deadlock occurring in the distributed environment. This scheme has given far better result than the other algorithms so far.
